Title: How to deal with Internet Trolls and Flamers - The Cognitive Therapy
Approach.

Subtitle: "On the Internet, don't be right - be smart."

* "You've probably heard people say many things about how to deal with Internet
trolls and flamers, i.e: people who say provocative statements or routinely
flame people. 

One of the most pervasive myths is that one should "not feed the trolls",
i.e: not reply to them. This almost always does not work and we will see
the reason why below. So how do you indeed deal with people who insult
or who are provocative?

The Feeling Good Book by David A. Burns.
	- how to deal with and prevent clinical depressions using self-help 	
	Congitive-Behavioural Therapy techniques (CBT)
	- lots of good advice of why we behave the way we do.
	- generally more effective than taking psychoactive medication, or
	most other forms of therapy (e.g: Freudian therapy).

How to deal with Internet trolls and flamers.
Case study: someone joins a Python IRC channel and says "Perl rocks my socks
and Python sucks balls, LOL. Python programmers are incompetent imbecile
losers, ROTFL..."

(I'm giving it about Python to avoid Perl-elitism on my part. I'm also using
"him", "he" consistently, though the troll might be female. )

What not to do:
---------------

1. Criticise his judgement: "Python does not suck, and you are being rude.",
"WTF are you saying? Everybody knows that Perl sucks."

2. "Don't feed the troll" - someone will feed him eventually and the troll may
continue trolling and feeling like he's right and superior or alternatively
that the Python people on the channels are being "jerks" for not responding.

3. Ban him / call for banning him - a great way to get another enemy, and can
also possible start some "was it right to ban him" conversations. Will also
negatively contribute to the channel's perception and atmosphere among the
channel members.

The troll may also prove to be a useful resource or can be taught to love
Python eventually.

4. Tell him not to troll. You're labelling him and insulting him and he's
feeling like he's alienated. Some people may still respond harshly.

5. Cancel the project, close the channel or give up 
    - some people actually considered it in some projects I was involved in.
    - naturally, this is throwing the baby along with the bathwater.

What to do instead:
-------------------

1. Agree with him (but use more exact words): "Yes, Perl is a nice language,
and I agree that Python has its downsides and/or trade-offs in comparison to
Perl.", "It's OK to prefer Perl, we'll still accept you here."

2. Ask him what he means: "Why do you feel that Python is so bad? What do you
find wrong with it?"

and eventually:

3. Negotiate a common ground: "Would you agree that some people like Perl
better and some like Python better? (And some may like both equally.). Maybe
you can still write Python code and be productive in it while still not in
love with it. Who knows, maybe you'll even grow to like it. Feel free to stick
around and ask questions."

4. Repeat a few times.

5. Success! The troll has been tamed and is now a friendly hobbit.

-----------------

Some more advice:
-----------------

1. Relax, don't worry if you don't everything exactly right.

2. Write in the best spelling, grammar, punctuation, capitalisation, idiomatic
speech, etc. that you can, no matter how bad the troll's message were in this
respect.
    - it may be a good idea to avoid too high or complicated words, because
    many people often have poor language.

3. Don't criticise what he says directly or the way he says it (Style over
substance etc.).

4. Avoid logical fallacies:
	- Ad hominem: "you're under age and much younger than me and not a
lawyer, so you're not qualified to give your opinion about open-source
licences."

5. Be polite, and friendly.

6. Don't be too terse. Write coherently, and explain what you want.
	- Proper human communication has a lot of redundancy, but people
prefer it this way.
	- Even in Information Theory, you cannot compress an arbitrary amount
of data to too short a message.
		- http://www.socialsignal.com/image/short-and-sweet

7. Don't be too verbose, as people won't bother reading you. It may be better
to put a claim and reiterate.

8. If using E-mail, always do bottom-inline posting and don't top-post (unless
you know better than that, which you probably don't).
	- Quote a selected message.
	- Disarm the troll using the methods above.
	- Repeat.

9. Don't selectively "trim" the message without leaving enough context.

10. Don't mis-interpret or jump to conclusions - ask the troll what he means if
he doesn't know.

11. Try to avoid aphorisms, proverbs, "famous" quotes, rhymes or verse etc.
Use free-form, coherent speech and say what you want in your own words.
	- Aphorisms, etc. tend to project authority, and usually backfire 	
	because a person intuitively knows that.
	- Sometimes they may lead to an aphorism war or for "correcting" the 	
	aphorism or discussing its larger context and origins.
	- All of these can sometimes spice up a friendly conversation and add 	
	humour to it, though, but your kilomterage may vary.

12. Avoid too many obscure acronyms and abbreviations, as this can distract
from the discussion. Spell them out (possibly using your chat/E-mail/etc.
client's shortcuts).

13. Don't make fun of the troll. Respect him and try to avoid unnecessary
humour. Be pleasant - not funny.

14. Don't be rude; use soft words such as "I think", "I believe", "In my
opinion", "I find that", etc.

15. Don't label: "open-source/creative commons is communism/socialism/etc." 
(so what if it is? It's still a good thing.).

16. Always start the conversation with a "Hi [someone], ", and possibly
thank him for what he says. This will better allow disarming him.

Further Reading:
----------------

1. http://www.amazon.com/Feeling-Good-Therapy-Revised-Updated/dp/0380810336
- "Feeling Good: The New Mood Therapy Revised and Updated" - 
by David D. Burns .

2. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZSFDm3UYkeE
- "How to Protect Your Open Source Project From Poisonous People"
- by Ben Collins-Sussman and Brian Fitzpatrick of Subversion fame.
- Google Tech Talk - not sure if there are subtitles or a transcript.

3. http://producingoss.com/ - "Producing Open Source Software"
- by Karl Fogel (of CVS/Subversion fame).

About myself. (boring).
-----------------------
    - at the end.

